# Current climate overrides past climate change in explaining multi-site beta diversity of Lauraceae species in China 

## Supplemental materials

###  Simultaneous autoregressive model
Best fitted SAR models (Kissling & Carl, 2008) predicting Sørensen-based multi-site dissimilarity (βsor) and its underlying true turnover (βsim) and nestedness (βsne) components for Chinese Lauraceae. R codes and data used for SAR analysis are given here to ensure reproducibility.

###  Predicted distribution map
Distribution maps calculated by ensembles of small models (ESMs, Breiner et al., 2015, 2018) for all species.  Binary map generated by ESMs and the continuous suitability maps produced by ESMs and the four algorithms, namely generalized linear model (GLM), classification tree analysis (CTA), 
artificial neural networks (ANN), maximum entropy (MAXENT) are displaying for each species.

## Citation

Ziyan Liao, Youhua Chen, Kaiwen Pan, Mohammed A. Dakhil, Kexin Lin, Xianglin Tian, Fengying Zhang, Xiaogang Wu, Bikram Pandey, Bin Wang, Niklaus E. Zimmermann, Lin Zhan & Michael P. Nobis. Current climate overrides past climate change in explaining multi-site beta diversity of Lauraceae species in China. Forest Ecosystems. Minor revision.

## Acknowledgements

The authors appreciate Tianwen Tang and Meng Zhang for collecting the species observations, Xuefang Gong for her efforts in the phylogenetic diversity analysis initially conceived, Ruidong Wu for providing the shapefile of Chinese nature reserves, Kalle Ruokolainen for his constructive suggestion on variable selection and statistical analysis and Ingolf Kühn for checking the reliability of the spatial regression modeling. 

The authors are grateful to the editor from *Forest Ecosystems* and two anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments on this work.

Ziyan Liao is particularly appreciative of the valuable suggestions on this manuscript from his colleagues and friends at WSL: Dr Percy Jinga (University of Bindura, Zimbabwe), Dr Di Tian (Beijing Forestry University, China), Dr Yongyong Zhang (Northeast Normal University, China), Dr Zheng Chen (University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, China), Dr Yiwen Pan (Nanchang University) and Dr Yunpeng Luo (Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry Jena, Germany).

## Author(s)

Ziyan Liao optiforziyan@gmail.com

Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu 610041, People’s Republic of China


## References: 
Breiner, F. T., Guisan, A., Bergamini, A., & Nobis, M. P. (2015). Overcoming limitations of modelling rare species by using ensembles of small models. Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 6(10), 1210–1218. https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.12403

Breiner, F. T., Nobis, M. P., Bergamini, A., & Guisan, A. (2018). Optimizing ensembles of small models for predicting the distribution of species with few occurrences. Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 9(4), 802–808. https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.12957

Kissling, W. D., & Carl, G. (2008). Spatial autocorrelation and the selection of simultaneous autoregressive models. Global Ecology and Biogeography, 17(1), 59–71. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1466-8238.2007.00334.x
